A brilliant sky. In that sky, there is filled with it, as I use the example, as filled with anode
of the wind.
The sky is filled with the anode of the wind. And one of the beginning of the wind is moving,
moving, and first instant becomes that leg.
The object of the next instant moving of the energy of the wind. So then, that subtle object has
subtle notion or of the grasping.
Or subtle thought of subtle object as very small grasping. And that is the starting point of the
continuation of grasping.
This is very subtle. The first thing, again, this open mind is the building of the sky.
If we don't use the wind, look to our own mind. First, when you stay in the personal status, we don
't see any mind.
This is the dharmakaya mind, I think. There is every teacher's mind. And the way we stay there,
there is subtle, there is thoughts coming.
So many of them, very subtle and gross, then thoughts begin to come. And that is the energy of this
dharmakaya mind.
So this beginning time of that subtle energy moving, first becomes the object, the second becomes
the subject, and there is, when you have that division, then that is grasping, thought comes.
Then grasping is we hold into that. We hold as subject and object. That is the grasping or clinging
, and that is the starting point of the delusions.
So is it always the "I" that begins to see that there is something? Not necessarily the "I". "I" is
, "I grasping" is what we call, is not grasping the strong one, according to what I am teaching to.
But the gross clinging, clinging is really the subtle obstacle, and that is what you must have
heard. There are two egos, the self-ego clinging and the ego of knowledge or the ego of dharma, or
the ego of dharma, the ego of the individual.
So this ego of dharma is the grasp. Ego of the clinging is this, ego of dharma is the subtle
clinging.
I think I can. But again, this is subtle, very subtle. Okay, now, beginning of the grasping, begin
of grasping is the beginning of the delusion.
That is the beginning of grasping, and that is so subtle. Very tiny, tiny in the teaching set. I
mean, that is really subtle, very subtle.
And the way that teaching is explaining that happiness is then subtle, that energy, and that you
are told the first one becomes something, object and setting become something, and we had let
grasping in the sense of the grasping.
And then in the God of Zama, we were also teaching, saying that there is the namah shibah sahajam j
i, that means there is subtle panic also happens. Very small panic happens, and then through that j
en reaction, then all this delusion begins, and that is the beginning of the grasping.
So this grasping itself has no best, it is only the display of the mind, and therefore we can claim
, and therefore nature of the grasping, nature of dharmakaya, and nature of the wisdom, basically
all the same.
There is no really difference. It is the grasping, it is just only one reaction of the mind, and
then we hold it onto that.
Is it possible to say a little example of that?
What?
Is it possible to say a little example of that? Like can you say from your own experience a little
time when you can see that?
Any examples? Any examples? I am trying to, what I say, the first and second, those are my kind of
examples.
Those are really my examples, but what I will say, a scientific way, if I can say, I should learn
that with physics.
But how, what the physical say, how this samsara, this, I am not samsara, how this all begins, how
this all begins, really I am not going to kidding, what this is.
How that is because, before this old, this big one, how this way start?
Matter and antimatter.
So that, where the antimatter and the matter start, I am not joking, where the matter of antimatter
and antimatter, how that started, what they experience.
This is the same way.
All start from the emptiness, all start from the true nature, the openness, dharmadhatu, start from
dharmadhatu, not really.
That is the example, so how, how, now I am going to say, ask physics, what this is.
But physics always goes to the limit that, I think that's it, because they are always trying to
catch with mental status.
Mental status, they all go further, they are always trying to, then they are, I mean, I am not, I
can't say that, but then they are going wrong, wrong.
But if you brag through that, then, then that's ready, that's it, that's it, they've got the money,
money is simple.
And what, now they are saying what's called, I heard this, it's called dark matter something, dark
matter or the dark matter of the world or something, they are talking, those things.
Black matter, black matter, dark matter, all that, that's it.
So, this is what it is, and therefore, in the Buddha's teachings, the nature is the same.
Outer, inner, and of course in the Buddha's teaching, all start from the mind, it's the start from
the mind.
But nature is the same, same. Therefore, it's expressed, there is nothing to go more further than
that.
It's inconceivable, when you reach that level, that.
But however inconceivable that is, then the energy is flowing, it's all that.
How that is working, all that, and then this Nagarjuna's teaching, for example, all the Madhavaka,
all those Nagarjuna using the logic,
reasoning to explore the Dhanakaya nature, and which is called Pandya Parhamata or Mademaka nature.
Mademaka, which means what? It's the middle way.
Nature is not extreme. It's in, always, balance it.
Balance it in the middle. That middle means balance in the status.
So this is what really the nature is. And that is the inexpressible.
Yet, even though there is an inconceivable state, but everything is flowing, everything is system.
Even if it is flowing, even the instant that, never lost the history of the origin of the college
or the nature of the natural,
never lost the natural colleges, therefore every concept, general concept in the world, is never
lost the origin of some other nature.
But the teaching is all, therefore is enlightened state. Always that's what the teaching is.
It's all is enlightened. Only we are mishandled.
Our individual is mishandled and we grasp. Grasping is not natural. Clinging is not natural.
Every clear way that, there's nothing you need to do anything.
Everything is powerful. That's what it is.
Okay. Thank you.